<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vrv_fsh_5jb">
    <title>Reconcile and file using Returns</title>
    <shortdesc>After our compliance team reviews your scheduled returns, you're nearly ready to file. First, though, you should review our calculations, reconcile your returns with what's in your business application and AvaTax Update, and check for any deductions or prepayments.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_hms_ksh_5jb">
            <title>Before you begin</title>
            <p><xref href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Set_up_Returns" format="html"
                    scope="external">Your returns need to be set up</xref> and then approved by
                Avalara.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_uxl_lsh_5jb">
            <title>Steps</title>
            <p>
                <ol id="ol_fcm_wsh_5jb">
                    <li>In AvaTax Update, go to Returns > Manage and Approve Returns. Choose the
                        state whose returns you want to review, and click Manage Returns. You'll see
                        details about your returns, including forms, filing frequencies, monthly
                        sales activity, and tax amounts.<p>Review this information to make sure it
                            matches what you expected. For more detailed information, including a
                            comparison of tax remitted to Avalara and tax remitted to the
                            jurisdiction, click Tax Details and Adjustments.<note>Looking for
                                quarterly, semiannual, or annual returns? Click Returns Accruing for
                                a Future Filing Period to see these longer-term returns during
                                months when you don't file them.</note></p></li>
                    <li>Add adjustments to what your company owes if you have them: <ol
                            id="ol_isl_ysh_5jb">
                            <li>Go to Returns > Manage and Approve Returns. Find the region where
                                you want to adjust tax liabilities and click Manage Returns.</li>
                            <li>Find the return you want to adjust and click Tax Details and
                                Adjustments.</li>
                            <li>Click Adjustments to Taxes and Fees or Adjustments to Remittance to
                                see the adjustments:<ul id="ul_jsl_ysh_5jb">
                                    <li>Prepayments are adjustments that Avalara remits <i>in
                                            addition</i> to what's normally filed.</li>
                                    <li>Prior payments are adjustments you've already paid on your
                                        own, outside AvaTax Update.</li>
                                </ul>To edit a prepayment, prior payment, or other adjustment
                                number, click Edit. To add a new prepayment or prior payment, click
                                Add Adjustments. If these adjustments occur regularly, it's a good
                                idea to <xref
                                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Recurring_prepayments_and_prior_payments"
                                    format="html" scope="external">automate them</xref>. </li>
                        </ol></li>
                    <li>Reconcile your returns. Depending on what you see on your returns, you may
                        need to:<ul id="ul_acc_1th_5jb">
                            <li>
                                <p><xref
                                        href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Reconcile_returns_with_your_general_ledger"
                                        format="html" scope="external">Reconcile with your general
                                        ledger</xref></p>
                                <p>Make sure the totals on your returns match what's in your
                                    business application.</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p><xref
                                        href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Reconcile_scheduled_returns_with_transactions_in_AvaTax_Update"
                                        format="html" scope="external">Reconcile with AvaTax Update
                                        transactions</xref></p>
                                <p>Compare the returns to what's in AvaTax Update.</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p><xref
                                        href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Reconcile_returns_with_consumer_use_tax"
                                        format="html" scope="external">Reconcile with consumer use
                                        tax</xref></p>
                                <p>Check for consumer use tax discrepancies. </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>When you're finished, click Approve.</li>
                    <li>Repeat these steps for each jurisdiction where you file returns.</li>
                </ol>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_tlx_lsh_5jb">
            <title>Result</title>
            <p>After you approve your returns, Avalara files them for you. You'll be able to see the
                completed returns at the end of the month. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_cx1_nsh_5jb">
            <title>See also</title>
            <p><xref href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Monthly_Returns_cycle"
                    format="html" scope="external">The monthly returns cycle</xref></p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
