<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_z3l_nth_5jb">
    <title>Recurring prepayments and prior payments</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>Some jurisdictions may require you to pre-pay some tax before you file your returns.
            Taxes paid this way are treated as a <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Vendor_discounts_and_applied_or_excluded_credits"
                format="html" scope="external">tax credit</xref> when you file the return they're
            associated with (for example, if you need to prepay taxes on your February return, you
            would pay part of February when you file for January, and claim the amount you prepaid
            as a credit on the February return). These prepayment requirements usually come into
            effect after your business has crossed a liability threshold of some kind.</p>
        <p>Depending on the jurisdiction, you might be required to include prepayments on the tax
            return forms you usually file, on a separate form specifically for prepayments, or
            through an electronic payment directly to the tax authority. Automate any of these
            prepayment methods, including direct payment, with forms in Returns, or remit
            prepayments yourself and <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Reconcile_and_file_using_Returns#Add_or_adjust_prepayments.2C_prior_payments.2C_and_other_tax_liabilities"
                format="html" scope="external">report them in Returns</xref> so that Avalara knows
            how much you already paid.</p>
        <p>Different jurisdictions have different requirements for setting up automated prepayments
            in Returns. Make sure you're <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Frequently_Asked_Questions/AvaTax_Update_FAQ/How_do_I_set_up_a_monthly_recurring_pre-payment_or_prior_payment_for_returns%3F"
                format="html" scope="external">following the steps necessary for the state you're
                filing in</xref>. If you aren't sure what you need to do, contact <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Departments_of_revenue_and_taxing_authorities_by_state"
                format="html" scope="external">the relevant tax authority</xref> or consult
            Avalara's <xref href="https://help.avalara.com/Returns_Central" format="html"
                scope="external">Returns Central</xref>.</p>
        <p>
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_rn2_gvh_5jb">
                <title>Recurring prepayments</title>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry><b>Prepayment requirements</b></entry>
                            <entry><b>How to automate with Returns</b></entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>File quarterly with monthly prepayments</entry>
                            <entry>Schedule a monthly prepayment return in addition to the form
                                you've set up for your quarterly filing. The specific form you need
                                to use varies depending on your jurisdiction. All of these forms
                                should be available in Returns, except for the New York PrompTax
                                form, which requires <xref
                                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Contact_Avalara" format="html"
                                    scope="external">assistance from Avalara</xref> to set
                                up.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Annual prepayments</entry>
                            <entry>Schedule an additional return form for the prepayment. The
                                specific form you need to use varies depending on your jurisdiction.
                                The annual prepay forms for West Virginia and Mississippi require
                                    <xref href="https://help.avalara.com/Contact_Avalara"
                                    format="html" scope="external">assistance from Avalara
                                    Support</xref> to set up.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Monthly prepayment and monthly filing</entry>
                            <entry>Schedule an additional return form for the prepayment. The
                                specific form you need to use varies depending on your
                                jurisdiction.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Combined prepayment and filing</entry>
                            <entry>Set up the combined prepayment and return filing form, and expire
                                any other return form that you'd set up in this
                                jurisdiction.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </p>
        
        <p>At this time, Returns doesn't support prepayments for Arkansas, Illinois, Michigan,
            Missouri, or the Iowa Bi-Monthly Deposit form. For these states and forms, make your
            prepayments directly to the state and then <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Reconcile_and_file_using_Returns#Adjust_tax_liabilities"
                format="html" scope="external">report the prior payments</xref> in AvaTax Update so
            that you don't end up paying that liability a second time.</p>
        <p>Once you've scheduled any returns that you need for your prepayments, <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Contact_Avalara" format="html" scope="external"
                >contact Avalara Support</xref> to make sure that your prepayment requirements are
            thoroughly documented. After everything's set up and your prepayments have been
            automated, find <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Find_and_download_your_filed_returns"
                format="html" scope="external">payment confirmations and bank trace IDs</xref> in
            Returns on the 5th of the month after the payment was issued.</p>
        <section id="section_fvc_c5h_5jb">
            <title>Understand how Avalara calculates your prepayments</title>
            <p>Avalara bases its prepayment calculations on data from your returns in previous
                years. If you don't have any prior returns in Returns, <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Frequently_Asked_Questions/AvaTax_Update_FAQ/How_do_I_set_up_a_monthly_recurring_pre-payment_or_prior_payment_for_returns%3F"
                    format="html" scope="external">provide information about your previous
                    returns</xref> so that Returns can calculate your prepayments. If that
                information isn't provided, Avalara isn't responsible for notices or penalties that
                might arise from you not making the correct prepayment.</p>
            <p>If the value of the prepayment that Returns calculates for you is $500 or less, then
                it rounds the prepayment up to the nearest $50. If the amount is over $500, it
                rounds up to the nearest $100. Prepayments are carried over to the next filing
                period as <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Vendor_discounts_and_applied_or_excluded_credits"
                    format="html" scope="external">prior payment credits</xref>, so you never lose
                money from this rounding, but be aware that the amount that Returns pulls from your
                account to remit to the jurisdiction may be larger than the actual prepayment
                value.</p>
            <p>If you don't want to use the amount calculated by Returns, <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Reconcile_and_file_using_Returns#Add_or_adjust_prepayments.2C_prior_payments.2C_and_other_tax_liabilities"
                    format="html" scope="external">change the amount remitted for your
                    prepayment</xref>. Avalara isn't responsible for notices or penalties that
                result from you underpaying after you make adjustments to your prepayments.</p>
            <p>Returns uses all committed transactions in a jurisdiction to calculate prepayments.
                Uncommitted transactions and transactions that are added to AvaTax Update after the
                prepayment has already been calculated aren't used.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
