<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="set_up_kansas_returns">
    <title>Set Up Kansas Returns</title>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_eqt_2rh_5jb">
            <title>Tell us where you collect tax</title>
            <p>Add Kansas to the places <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_AvaTax_Update/Update_where_you_collect_and_pay_tax"
                    format="html" scope="external">where you collect tax</xref>. This tells AvaTax
                Update to calculate tax on Kansas transactions. See the <xref
                    href="https://www.ksrevenue.org/business.html" format="html" scope="external"
                    >Kansas Department of Revenue website</xref> for details about nexus,
                registration, and taxes in Kansas.</p>
            <?oxy_insert_start author="lucien.nyswonger" timestamp="20191120T132244-0800"?>
            <p>Hello workd<?oxy_insert_end?><note>blah clah
                bla</note><?oxy_insert_start author="lucien.nyswonger" timestamp="20191120T132244-0800"?></p>
            <?oxy_insert_end?>
            <p>Before you add Kansas, there are two things you need to do:</p>
            <ul id="ul_zxh_hrh_5jb">
                <li>Make sure you have <xref
                        href="https://www1.avalara.com/us/en/learn/nexus/state/kansas.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">nexus in Kansas</xref>. In <xref
                        href="https://www.avalara.com/us/en/learn/nexus/find_your_nexus.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">some states</xref>, you may have <xref
                        href="https://help.avalara.com/Frequently_Asked_Questions/AvaTax_Update_FAQ/The_Supreme_Court_ruled_in_favor_of_South_Dakota_in_the_South_Dakota_versus_Wayfair_case%E2%80%94what_does_this_mean_for_my_business%3F"
                        format="html" scope="external">economic nexus</xref> if you're a remote
                    seller.</li>
                <li>Register with the <xref href="https://www.ksrevenue.org/busregistration.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">Kansas Department of Revenue</xref></li>
            </ul>
            <p>Kansas has both <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_AvaTax_Update/Sales_and_sellers_use_tax"
                    format="html" scope="external">sales and sellers use tax</xref>. <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_AvaTax_Update/States_and_tax_types"
                    format="html" scope="external">Pick the right tax type</xref> based on the way
                your business is registered and the tax return you need to file.</p>
            <p>When you select the tax type for Kansas:</p>
            <ul id="ul_ayh_hrh_5jb">
                <li>Set the tax type to <b>Sales tax only</b> if you only file a Sales Tax return
                    (KS ST-36)</li>
                <li>Set the tax type to <b>Sales or sellers use tax</b> if you file a Sellers Use
                    return (KS CT-9U)</li>
            </ul>
            <p>"Sourcing" determines the location where a sale is taxed. Kansas is a <xref
                    href="https://www.avalara.com/us/en/learn/whitepapers/origin-vs-destination-sales-tax.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">destination-sourced state</xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_r54_jrh_5jb"><title>Add your company locations</title>Kansas doesn't
            require location reporting on the returns. <xref
                href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_AvaTax_Update/Add_other_company_locations_for_location-based_filing"
                format="html" scope="external">Add any physical locations</xref> you have in Kansas
            to enhance your company setup and track sales by location.</section>
        <section id="section_org_mrh_5jb">
            <title>Schedule your returns</title>
            <p>After you tell us where you collect tax and add locations, you're ready to schedule
                returns. Go to Returns in AvaTax Update to <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Complete_your_funding_power_of_attorney"
                    format="html" scope="external">provide a funding power of attorney</xref> and
                    <xref href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_Returns/Schedule_your_returns"
                    format="html" scope="external">schedule your returns</xref>. </p>
            <p>Your company name and taxpayer ID from <xref
                    href="https://help.avalara.com/Avalara_AvaTax_Update/Update_company_information"
                    format="html" scope="external">Your Company Details</xref> show up on your
                returns. Make sure they match what’s on your registration information.</p>
            <p>Use this info to schedule your returns. Keep in mind that the selections you made
                when you told us where you collect tax, any location codes you entered, and the
                forms you select are related and should tie together.</p>
            <ul id="ul_tq3_nrh_5jb">
                <li>Select <b>KS ST-36</b> Sales Tax to file sales tax</li>
                <li>Select <b>KS CT-9U </b>Sellers Use to file retailers use tax</li>
                <li>Select <b>KS CT-10U </b>Consumers Use to file consumers use tax</li>
            </ul>
            <p>Create an online account with the <xref
                    href="https://www.kdor.ks.gov/Apps/kcsc/login.aspx?ReturnUrl=%2fApps%2fKCSC%2fsecure%2fdefault.aspx"
                    format="html" scope="external">Kansas Department of Revenue</xref> to confirm
                your filing frequency, file your returns, and pay your taxes.</p>
            <p>Enter your Kansas registration ID in the correct format when you're scheduling the
                return. Example: 05-123456789-F01</p>
            <p>Kansas sales and use tax returns must be filed electronically. Enter your login
                credentials when you schedule your returns.</p>
            <p>Kansas sales and use tax returns must be filed by the 25th day of the month following
                the ending date of the return.</p>
            <p>Prepayments</p>
            <ul id="ul_uq3_nrh_5jb">
                <li>Monthly prepayments may be required if your tax liability is greater than
                    $40,000 (subject to change at the state's discretion)</li>
                <li>Avalara calculates prepayments for Kansas as 50% of the tax liability for the
                    same month in the prior year. If Avalara doesn't have a full 12 months of prior
                    year data, you're required to provide the total liability amount for the missing
                    periods or we can't track prepayments for you for the first year.</li>
                <li>Learn more about Kansas prepayments<ul id="ul_vq3_nrh_5jb">
                        <li><xref href="https://www.ksrevenue.org/faqs-taxsales.html" format="html"
                                scope="external">Kansas Sales Tax FAQs</xref></li>
                        <li><xref href="https://www.ksrevenue.org/pdf/st36.pdf" format="html"
                                scope="external">Retailer's Sales Tax (ST-36) Instructions (see Part
                                1, Line 4)</xref></li>
                        <li><xref href="https://www.ksrevenue.org/pdf/ct09u.pdf" format="html"
                                scope="external">Retailer's Compensating Use Tax (CT-9U)
                                Instructions (see Part 1, Line 2)</xref></li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>Contact the Kansas Department of Revenue at 785-368-8222 for more info about
                    prepayments</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
